Imagine a colleague
sends you a script with
a bug and asked you to
help fix the issue.
Once you understood what
was wrong with the script,
you could describe to them
what they need to change.
Something like, "Well, you can
only return values
inside functions.
I think you meant to
use sys.exit instead.
Also, you're converting
to gigabytes twice,
so your script will always fail."
But this could still
be hard for them to
understand if the
code is complex.
To make the change clear,
you could send them a diff
with the change so that
they can see what the
modified code looks like.
To do this, we typically use
a command line like diff-u
old_file new_ file > change.diff.
As a reminder, the
greater than sign
redirects the output of the
diff command to a file.
So with this command,
we're generating a file called
change.diff with the
contents of diff-u command.
By using the -u flag,
we include more context
which helps the person
reading the file understand
what's going on with the change.
The generated file is
usually referred to as
a diff file or
sometimes a patch file.
It includes all the changes
between the old file
and the new one,
plus the additional context
needed to understand
the changes and to apply
those changes back to
the original file.
Now, say you're the one
receiving a diff file with
a change and you want to
apply it to a script you wrote.
You could read the diff file
you receive carefully and
then manually go through the file
that needs to be changed,
and apply the modifications.
But it sounds like a lot of
manual work that could be
automated, don't you think?
Well, it sure is.
There's a command called
patch to do exactly this.
Patch takes a file generated by
diff and applies the changes
to the original file.
Let's check this
out in an example.
Say we have a small script
that checks whether
the computer is under too
much load, like this one.
This script uses the
psutil module to check
the percentage of the CPU
that's currently in use.
When the load is
above a threshold,
in this case 75 percent,
it prints a message
with an error.
When it's under the threshold,
it says that everything's okay.
Now, we've shared
this script with
a few colleagues and one of them
tells us that the script
doesn't work correctly.
Even if a computer is
completely overloaded,
the script will say
that everything's okay.
Our colleague is so
helpful that they
sent us a diff with the
fix for our problem.
Let's check that one out. We can
see that our colleague
made two changes.
They added a one
as a parameter to
the CPU percent function and
they added a debugging line,
that prints the value
returned by the function.
Our colleague explains
that by calling
the CPU percent function
without a parameter,
we were not averaging
over a period of time,
and so the call
always returns zero.
So we have the diff file
and we want to apply
it to our script.
How do we do that? We'll
use the patch command.
We'll pass the name of
the file that we want to
patch in this case, cpu_usage.py,
as the first parameter
to the command
and then we'll provide the diff
file through standard input.
Do you remember how to do that?
We will use the less
than symbol to redirect
the contents of the file to
standard input. Let's
check this out.
So we told patch to apply
the changes that come from
cpu_usage.diff to our
cpu_usage.py file.
We get one single line that
says the file was patched,
which means that we've
successfully applied the changes.
Let's verify that by
looking at the contents
of our script.
Nice. We see that our file was
modified with the changes that
we got from our colleague.
The CPU percent function
is being called with
a parameter of one and the
debugging line is printed.
Once we're happy with the script,
we could remove the
debugging line.
But for now, we'll
leave it in there.
You might be wondering, why go
through all this trouble diffing,
and patching, and not just
send the whole file instead?
There are a few reasons for this.
The main reason is that
the original code
could have changed.
In our example, it's
possible that the code
our colleague was
using to prepare
the fix wasn't the
latest version.
By using a diff instead
of the whole file,
we can clearly see
what they changed,
no matter which version
they were using.
The patch command can
detect that there
were changes made to
the file and will do its best
to apply the diff anyways.
It won't always succeed
but in many cases it will.
Another reason is structure.
In this case we're patching
a single small file.
But sometimes, you
might be modifying
a bunch of large files
inside of a huge project.
Say you are changing
four files in
a project tree that contain
100 different files,
arranged in different directories
according to what they do.
If you were to send
the whole files,
you'd need to specify where
those files were
supposed to be placed.
As we called out,
we can diff whole
directory structures
and in that case
the diff file can
specify where each
change file should
be without us having to
do any manual juggling.
Cool right? Okay, great work.
We've now seen how to
generate diff files and
how to apply their contents
with the patch command.
In the next video,
we'll put all this
together to look at
a real-world example of
how to use diff and patch.